{\rtf1\ansi
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Monospaced;\f1\fnil SansSerif;\f2\fnil Dialog;\f3\fnil MingLiU-ExtB;\f4\fnil Modern No. 20;\f5\fnil Rage Italic;}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red51\green51\blue51;\red204\green102\blue51;\red26\green77\blue26;\red26\green51\blue153;\red102\green153\blue153;\red230\green77\blue77;\red128\green179\blue128;}

\qc\f1\fs68\i0\b0\cf2  Text editor\fs36\cf1\par
\f3\cf3 1. A text editor is a type of computer program that edits plain text. \par
2. Such programs are sometimes known as "notepad" software, following the naming of Microsoft Notepad.[1][2][3] \par
3. Text editors are provided with operating systems and software development packages, and can be used to change files such as configuration files, documentation files and programming language source code.[4]\f1\cf1\par
\par
\qc\f4\fs72\cf4 Plain text vs. rich text\f1\fs36\cf1\par
\cf5 There are important differences between plain text (created and edited by text editors) and rich text (such as that created by word processors or desktop publishing software).\cf1\par
\par
\qr\f5\fs40\cf6\bullet  Plain text exclusively consists of character representation.\par
\bullet   Each character is represented by a fixed-length sequence of one, two, or four bytes, \par
\bullet  or as a variable-length sequence of one to four bytes, \par
\bullet  in accordance to specific character encoding conventions, such as ASCII, ISO/IEC 2022, UTF-8, or Unicode. \par
\bullet  These conventions define many printable characters,\f1\fs36\cf1  \par
\ql\cf7 but also non-printing characters that control the flow of the text, such as space, line break, and page break. \par
Plain text contains no other information about the text itself, not even the character encoding convention employed. Plain text is stored in text files, although text files do not exclusively store plain text. In the early days of computers, plain text was displayed using a monospace font, such that horizontal alignment and columnar formatting were sometimes done using whitespace characters. For compatibility reasons, this tradition has not changed.\cf1\par
}
